<!-- Image Insight API README -->


# Image Insight API

## Overview

The Image Insight API is a RESTful service developed to analyze images using the GPT4v external image analysis API and returns meaningful descriptions. This API provides a user-friendly endpoint for uploading images, handles image data securely and efficiently, and ensures robust error handling for network issues, invalid inputs, and external API failures.

## Features

- **Image Analysis**: Submit images to receive descriptive content generated by GPT-4 Vision Preview.
- **Flexible Configuration**: Easily configure API settings through the provided configuration file.
- **Scalable and Extendable**: Built with scalability and extensibility in mind, allowing for future enhancements and updates.

## Installation

1. **Clone the Repository:**
    ```bash
    # Extract the contents of the zip folder
    unzip image_insight_api.zip
    ```

2. **Navigate to the Project Directory:**
    ```bash
    cd image_insight_api
    ```

3. **Create and Activate a Virtual Environment:**
    ```bash
    python -m venv venv
    source venv/bin/activate  # for Unix/Linux
    venv\Scripts\activate.bat  # for Windows
    ```

4. **Install Dependencies:**
    ```bash
    pip install -r requirements.txt
    ```

5. **Set Up API Key:**
    - Open the `config.py` file in the `app` directory.
    - Add your GPT4v API key to the `OPENAI_API_KEY` variable:
      ```python
      class Config:
          OPENAI_API_KEY = "your-api-key-here"
      ```

6. **Run the Application:**
    ```bash
    # Run the application
    python run.py
    ```

Now you have successfully set up the Image Insight API on your local environment. You can proceed to use the API as described in the Usage section of the README.




## Directory Structure

```plaintext
image_insight_api/
├── app/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   ├── api/
│   │   ├── __init__.py
│   │   └── image_analyzer.py
│   ├── config.py
│   ├── extensions.py
│   └── utils/
│       └── image_analyzer_utils.py
├── requirements.txt
├── run.py
├── tests/
│   ├── __init__.py
│   └── test_image_analyzer.py
└── venv/

